---
layout: post
title: "Debussy & Bartok"
---

h2. {{ page.title }}

p(publish_date). 23 Oct 2008

<p>"Everything he does is wrong," said one of his teachers, "but he is wrong in a talented way." Claude Debussy went to the Paris Conservatory and studied there for eleven contention-filled years, questioning and breaking away from all the rules of the past. "Why must dissonant chords always be resolved?" Debussy asked, and when he was not given a satisfactory answer, he began to experiment with a chromaticism, modal technique, the whole tone and pentatonic scales, the avoiding of a definite key, and using chords that tended to produce vagueness of tonality. With his fastidious ear he had a natural affinity for the exotic and old as well as the most avant-garde. He acquired a reputation as an iconoclast, violating all rules, and it is not surprising that some years later the twentieth-century revolution in music began in France with Claude Debussy.
One of his professors at the conservatory inquired, "What rules do you observe?"
Debussy answered, "None—only my own pleasure!"<br/>

"That's all very well," came the reply, "provided you're a genius." They soon began to suspect that he was.</p>

<p>– <a href="http://books.google.com/books?id=g1OvSuH5JSAC&amp;pg=PA178&amp;lpg=PA178&amp;dq=debussy+rules+genius&amp;source=web&amp;ots=WPRgmsXria&amp;sig=j2TSf8gSzNEt0ncFIe_v1wHOjjg&amp;hl=en&amp;sa=X&amp;oi=book_result&amp;resnum=2&amp;ct=result#PPA178,M1">The Gift of Music</a></p>

<p>Legendary teacher Isidore Philipp offered to introduce the young Hungarian composer Bela Bartok to Camille Saint-Saens, at that time a great celebrity. Bartok declined. Philipp then offered him Charles-Marie Wider. Bartok again declined. 'Well, if you won't meet them, who is there that you would like to know?' 'Debussy,' said Bartok. 'But he is a horrid man,' said Philipp. 'He hates everybody and will certainly be rude to you. Do you want to be insulted by Debussy?' 'Yes,' said Bartok."</p>

<p>– <a href="http://www.anecdotage.com/index.php?aid=158">Anectodage</a></p>
