---
layout: post
title: "IM Etiquette"
---

h2. {{ page.title }}

p(publish_date). 8 Jun 2008

<p>We use Instant Messaging at my job.  I don't like how some people use it and I wrote this guide a few years ago.  As I re-read it today I realize that my feelings aren't quite as strong as they used to be.</p>

<h4>General Guidelines for Business IM</h4>

<ul>
<li>Be specific</li>
<li>Be direct and to the point</li>
<li>Be courteous but avoid too many pleasantries</li>
</ul>

<h4>When to IM & When to Email, When to Call</h4>

<p>IM can be a great tool for communicating.  It can also be the WRONG tool.  Here are a list of reasons to use instant messaging:</p>

<ul>
<li>Your message is urgent</li>
<li>Your message is brief</li>
<li>You expect your request will not take an extended period of time to fulfil</li>
<li>Your message does not require followup</li>
</ul>

<p>Reasons to use email:</p>

<ul>
<li>Your message is intended for more than one individual</li>
<li>You wish to CC the individual's superior to ensure proper priority is set to your request</li>
</ul>

<h4>Initiating a Conversation</h4>

<p>When initiating a conversation it's best to lead off with what you are contacting the other party for:</p>

<pre class="im">
Frank: Hey Jane, could you check the fax machine to see if I got a fax?  
       It's hard for me to make it up the stairs since I broke my ankle.
Jane: Sure, just a sec
Jane: Nope, no fax yet
Frank: Darn. Maybe that African Prince email was a scam after all.  Thanks anyway.
</pre>

<p>Another good example is the following:</p>

<pre class="im">
(8:32:22)  Jane: Hey Frank, let me know when you are back at your desk, I have a fax to drop by
(10:15:11) Frank: I'm back Jane- that meeting was murder.
</pre>

<p>Here is an example of what not to do:</p>

<pre class="im">
(8:12:22) Bill: Hey Ted!
              (meanwhile Ted sees the message but is very busy on something 
               and decides to wait to see if Bill wants anything)
(8:17:51) Bill: Hello? You there?
(8:17:52) Ted: Yes, I'm here. Do you need something?
(8:19:43) Bill: Oh, cool. I thought you weren't around because you didn't answer.
(8:22:23) Bill: So.. hey, could you like do me a favor?
                (meanwhile Ted waits to see what Bill might need)
(8:27:01) Bill: Ted! BUZZ! Hey did you go?
(8:27:35) Ted: No. What do you need?
(8:28:17) Bill: Ok, good because you didn't respond and I didn't know what happened.  
                Can you check the report, I think their might be an error on it.
(8:29:45) Ted: What report are you talking about?
</pre>

<p>You get the point.  Because Bill didn't specify his needs clearly and quickly Bill and Ted's adventure cost Ted 4 interruptions and about 20 minutes of time that they won't be able to get back.</p>
		
	
		

