---
layout: post
title: YART
---

h2. {{ page.title }}

p(publish_date). 15 Apr 2008

<p>Yet another rails tutorial.  There are tons of these but I felt like making my own.  My rails version at time of writing is 2.0.2.  In this tutorial series we'll be creating a basic cookbook website.  The objective is to give the reader an introduction to software development in Ruby on Rails.

For windows be sure to change all slashes / to backslashes \.
</p>

<p>First we start by creating the project:
</p>

<pre class="terminal">
$ rails cookbook
 ...
 ... bunch of files generated ...
 ...
$  cd cookbook

</pre>

<p>Let's create the scaffold for the Cookbooks.  A "scaffold" is the bare bones you need for functionality.  A model, a migration script, a controller, 4 views and a layout.  It also creates tests and fixtures.</p>

<pre class="terminal">
$ ruby script/generate scaffold Cookbook title:string author:string
</pre>

<p>This command will use the migration script generated above and create the database table "cookbooks" - Table names are plural.</p>

<pre class="terminal">
$ rake db:migrate
</pre>

<p>Open new terminal window and navigate to cookbook directory and start the server: </p>

<pre class ="terminal">
$ ruby script/server
</pre>

<p>Point Browser to <a href="http://localhost:3000/cookbooks">http://localhost:3000/cookbooks</a>. You should see an empty list of all cookbooks.  Create a new cookbook by clicking the <a href="http://localhost:3000/cookbooks/new">New Cookbook</a> link.</p>

<p>Okay, now let's create the scaffold for the Recipes and migrate the database:</p>

<pre class="terminal">

$ ruby script/generate scaffold Recipe name:string ingredients:text description:text number_of_servings:integer
</pre>

<p>Now update the database:</p>

<pre class="terminal">
$ rake db:migrate
</pre>

<p>Point Browser to <a href="http://localhost:3000/recipes">http://localhost:3000/recipes</a> and create a new recipe.</p>

<p>Great!  Now we have a functional Cookbook and Recipe model.  But now we realize that we need to make recipes belong to cookbooks.  We'll do that in <a href="/2008/04/15/rails-lesson-2-the-console.html">Rails Lesson #2.</a>
